>> Mike North: The last thing we're
gonna do in this workshop is to give
you an idea of how the TypeScript
compiler sees your code.
And we're gonna do this through
taking a tour of a really quick and
dirty documentation generator.
That takes advantage of all of the
information that compiler gathers as it
parses and
type checks your TypeScript source code.
So let's look at in the notes section
at number nine, Compiler API.
>> Mike North: So first, this is proof
that I keep using isDefined over and
over again.
I just cannot seem to get by without it.
We're going to import,
this is called a wild card import.
We're just sort of getting everything from
TypeScript, from the TypeScript module.
We could do import
createProgram from TypeScript,
and then we'd be able to
use createProgram directly.
All this does is it allows
us to do ts.createProgram.
>> Mike North: There it is.
And this is just because we need
a whole bunch of different stuff, but
it's a little nuanced.
It's kinda TypeScript specific.
You don't see wildcard
imports in JavaScript.
>> Mike North: So
the first thing we're gonna do,
we're going to create
a TypeScript program.
And we're passing in two things.
This first object here, options,
it is equivalent conceptually to
your ts.Config compiler options.
So we've got target,
we could have module and
say ys.ModuleKind.CommonJS,
whatever we want to put in there.
These correspond to some of the command
line flags we were looking at when we
first played with TypeScript compiler and
it's also what's in ts.Config.
The second thing we
must pass is rootNames.
And so what I've done is using nodes
path module, I've joined together
an appropriate path that leads to the
example we compiled in that first thing
we did as we were poking around with
how to turn TypeScript into JavaScript.
So it's pointing to the ts file.
The next thing we're gonna do is grab this
program, and by the time we reach this
line of code it will be compiled and
type checked and ready to go.
We're gonna get all of
the source files and
filter out those that
are declaration files.
And this is a good opportunity for
me to kinda show you what all is brought
in automatically to you program.
So I'll comment that out temporarily,
console.log(nonDeclFiles).
Let's just call that files now since
we're gonna skip the filtering
and for the purposes of logging,
I'm just gonna transform them,
their objects, and
I just want the path name.
So I wanna run this code.
>> Mike North: So I didn't save.
My bad.
And we have a whole lot
of different stuff.
Someone has used TypeScript before.
Can you tell me what these
files are all about?
>> Speaker 1: There type definitions for
various different libraries.
>> Mike North: For node, right?
Anything that starts with @types,
those are from the definitely typed,
master repo of public type definitions.
You could get to those
by just clicking into
stuff that I'm importing from
the various node modules.
At types node path, right, so
these are all the different node modules.
So let's keep looking around here.
There's some more types nodes stuff,
lots and lots of it.
>> Mike North: And just scanning for
when things look a bit different.
Here's mocha and chai, so
I'm using those for testing.
Okay, finally we have the original
source file in hello-ts.
Note that everything else
has been a d.ts file.
These are just declaration
files that are being imported.
And then underneath,
because this is printed from the first
things that are parsed all
the way to the last things.
Like, I lost my place,
so here's the program.
This is what I would
consider my source code.
Underneath that we've got esnext, right,
these are actually declaration files
that come with TypeScript itself.
So that's where I can click on
something like, what's a good example?
Map, array.map.
Part of the programming language, right?
Well we find ourself
in a declaration file,
so he same mechanism that is
used to consume library type
information is used to consume
the type information for
everything we would consider JavaScript.
Same goes with the dom API.
And if we looked here, there are actually
a couple different versions of these.
Where, when we're saying,
I want to target es17 or 2017 or
2016 or 2015, you just end up kind
of picking a different file here.
And a lot of the new one just
stack on top of the old ones,
cuz naturally,
the language is additive as time foes on.
So If we're gonna build
the documentation engine
we probably don't wanna document the whole
JavaScript programming language.
We're gonna end up touching
on a lot of different things.
And it sort of starts to get very big,
very quickly.
So as you touch the string,
now they are all in string methods and
those refer to arrays, and
there are the array methods.
Sort of unravels very quickly and
becomes huge.
So that is why I'm filtering through for
only those things that
are not declaration files.
Only the ts files, not the d.ts files.
And, thankfully, there is a property
on there called isDeclarationFile.
If I were to do the same thing now,
console.log nonDeclFiles.map
fileName, run it again.
There we go, we're done to one.
One source file, everything else is
just extra type information that helps
everything compile properly.